---
title: "Hackathon Project: Pshiny"
date: 2020-01-11
tags: [side projects, projects platform]
header:
  image: "/images/EinsteinQuotes.jpg"
excerpt: "side projects, projects platform"
mathjax: "true"
---

[Our website prototype (Github page and Sketch)](https://pshiny.github.io/)

### Team Name: Pshiny

“P” refers to anything that demonstrates your personal accomplishments, such as projects (class projects,
thesis, HarrisHack projects...), portfolios, products, (software) programs, posters...
(We will use “projects” as a reference to all possible “P” in this proposal.)
Pshiny helps you P shiny by storytelling.

### Team Members:

Li Liu (2nd yr in MACSS), liu431@uchicago.edu

Mark Amobi (1st yr in MPCS), markdamobi@uchicago.edu

Anirudh (Rudy) Sriram (1st yr in MPCS), srirama@uchicago.edu

Chun Hu (1st yr in MACSS), chunhu@uchicago.edu

Daniela Matinho (2st yr in Analytics), danielamatinho@uchicago.edu

### Problem Statement
As students in the master programs, we have finished many projects that we are proud of. However, there
is no central platform for us to showcase our projects. We also could get very limited feedback from peers
or instructors. It’s also difficult to show the projects to the employers as they are too complex.

### Description of idea

Albert Einstein once said: “If you can’t explain it simply, you don’t understand it well enough”. As a
result, Pshiny is a platform for students to present their projects simply. Pshiny aims to help students have
an effective channel to present their projects in an engaging manner and at the same time improve their
ability to communicate their work. There are two parts that achieve this goal, which focuses on writing
and getting critiques.

The first part is a social media website where students could post summaries of their projects concisely.
We call this the elevator pitch of your projects as the students have to explain the project with limited
characters and key visualizations. Although the students could add links to the full paper or all codes on
Github, they have to think about how to let other readers understand and get impressed by your projects in
three minutes.

The second part would the matching algorithm that matches students to critique each other’s projects.
Pshiny will match students ideally from very different fields to encourage students to write projects
without too much technical jargon and universally understandable. Of course, these projects will be open
to all other students to provide feedback. The website would also allow messaging between different
students for more private discussions.

The target audience is primarily students who want to showcase their work in an attractive manner while
improving their ability to better communicate their past projects. Our first batch of students would be
from programs in Public Policy, Computational Social Science, Analytics, Social Science, Computer
Science, MBA, Statistics, etc.

Our long term goal with this project is to attract employers, who would be able to view the portfolios of
the students on the PShiny website. Employers would also be able to suggest sample projects that students
could work on, and post on their portfolios, which would allow employers to be able to better evaluate
students’ relevant abilities. The platform would act as an engaging way for employers to view and
understand students’ past work. As it is often quoted, it is a lot better to show than to tell. In this case, a
portfolio with visualizations and an engaging UI would do a lot more for students than a few bullet points
in a resume.

### Value Proposition

There are three main outcomes for students to join Pshiny.
The first outcome is showcasing your work in a simple, engaging and attractive manner. These will be
especially useful for students who are looking for jobs, as they can provide links to their Pshiny portfolio
on their resume, Linkedin and so on.
The second outcome is improving students’ ability to communicate and present their projects while
getting peer feedback. This is especially important for students preparing for interviews or presentations.
PShiny would also provide assistance and writing tips to help students learn the best practices.
The third but certainly not the least important outcome is the ability to network with people from your
field, and beyond. Most of the students work alone in their projects. Pshiny believes that there should be
more interdisciplinary conversations between students in different fields. Pshiny enables this conversation
by encouraging students to critique others’ work and messaging. Potentially, students would get new
ideas by methods from other fields or find collaborators who are interested in similar topics.

### Data

The data will come from the users. Before students post on Pshiny, they will fill out a form, answering
questions such as their background, categories of projects, subjects, what kind of critiques they are
looking for, and so forth. Pshiny will use this information to enable matching between different users and
also provide recommendations for other projects you may find interesting and useful to read.
We also plan to survey about 50 students online in the relevant programs before the hackathon. In
particular, we will estimate the market demand and further decide what functions are most important for
the website.

### Roadmap
Firstly, we aim to create the prototype for Pshiny using online tools such as Figma or InVision. We will
also use the hackathon time to brainstorm ideas and design the pages. To achieve this goal, we plan to
discuss and learn the new tools before the hackathon. We want to use the time during the hackathon to
efficiently implement our ideas and also receive feedback from mentors and peers.
Secondly, we will design marketing strategies for getting students to post on websites. We will also
analyze the survey data from students to decide the product designs.
